journaling is the habit of keeping a
diary or log about our experiences ideas
insights and anything else that life
evokes in our minds the Stoics have a
long-standing tradition in journaling
with Marcus Aurelius meditations as
clearest evidence writing our thoughts
down has several benefits which I'll
explore in this video the power of
journaling
[Music]
first of all thank you highlight healing
and Joelle for your generous paypal
donations and I thank you Fernando tisha
and Garrett for generously supporting me
on patreon I appreciate it guys also I
would like to thank Jose for adding
Portuguese subtitles to some of my
videos which is now possible if you want
to make this content understandable for
non-english speaking audiences thank you
now let's dive in marcus aurelius never
meant to publish his Diaries this makes
it more plausible that the contents of
his meditations are his honest thoughts
about a variety of topics I could
imagine that because a man in the
position of Emperor and the most
powerful person in the world didn't have
any equals to talk to and therefore
resorted to pen and paper as an outlet
but it could also be that Marcus knew
very well about the psychological
effects that journaling brings anyhow
his writings have provided humanity with
profound wisdom to this day and thus we
could say that by journaling he built
his own personal Bible which proved to
be invaluable for many generations after
him this brings me to the first benefit
of journaling preserving personal life
lessons it's great to have access to
other people's experiences and learn
about life are reading books or watching
YouTube videos but there's nothing like
our own individual experiences every
person is unique and so is every
situation and I believe that the only
person we should compare ourselves with
when it comes to personal growth is our
own past self by keeping track of a
personal life lessons we will know where
and when exactly things went wrong and
things went right why is this important
many people make the same mistakes over
and over again and just never seem to
learn by having certain key moments in
writing it's easier to remember what we
usually forget so we can make wiser
decisions in the present and future to
illuminating what's in the dark for
those who have seen my video about the
shadow probably know what I'm talking
but in union psychology the shadow is
the realm in the unconscious that
harbors unwanted personality aspects
thoughts and desires because we all wear
a mask to show ourselves to society in a
desirable manner everything that's
undesirable is kicked down into the
shadow what's so dangerous about this is
that the shadow can manifest itself in a
very destructive ways journaling is a
way to make sense of our own shadow
behaviors and keep track of when they
emerge and what they look like
by doing this we shine a light on our
unconscious inner world and bit by bit
we basically journal ourselves into our
souls 3 strengthening discipline keeping
a journal every day is a discipline on
its own that's why it's so hard to stick
to it but when we manage to write a
journal every day this affects other
areas in life as well discipline is
contagious when I do something in a
disciplined way like exercise I will
automatically become more disciplined in
regards to my nutrition and sleep and
let go of bad habits that obstruct the
good ones the effect of journaling is
similar because I journal about my
activities I'm more inclined to actually
do these activities for example one of
my key habits in regards to this channel
is that I write down my daily goals on
the night before even if it's just a
simple goal like writing a video script
this helps me to stay disciplined the
next day because it's clear what I have
to do and the burden of the future
limits itself to that task alone this
not only strengthens discipline but
reduces anxiety as well for reduce
anxiety writing down your thoughts
brings relief life can be very chaotic
and food for destructive overthinking
thinking especially overthinking is what
causes anxiety psychologist and
researcher James penny Baker from the
University of Texas found that a
journaling removes emotional blockages
and allows us to better grasp what's
going on and helps us to come to terms
with stressful events simply put
creates order out of chaos in a way it's
like cleaning a room we take all the
mess and put everything in perfect order
remove the dust and make sure it looks
good with journaling we take the mass of
our minds put it into words and remove
the nonsense this way we basically lose
our thoughts on paper saved for future
consultation we don't have to hold on to
them anymore which is a soothing idea
after sharing these benefits with you
here are some words of caution though in
an article on psychology today dr.
Steven Stasi writes that journaling when
done wrong can have negative effects on
the mind as well journaling can make
people self-obsessed passive towards
life meaning observing instead of taking
action wallowing in the past going on
and on about all the bad things that
have happened to them his advice on good
journaling is in a nutshell doing it
constructively so it leads to solutions
so that's it for today if you've
experienced other benefits of journaling
please post them in the comment section
thank you for watching
[Music]